# LMU (Official)

# Statistics
* Explain quantities like expectation, median, variance, quantile, etc. for a random variable X.
* For a continuous random variable X explain how the density is related to the distribution function.
* Assume that X is normally distributed with mean m and variance s2. Explain what this means, and state some properties of the normal distribution. How can we calculate P(X < x)?
* Explain the principle ideas of Maximum Likelihood. Use Maximum Likelihood to estimate the parameter of a Bernoulli (p) distribution when given n independent 0/1 i.i.d. observations.
* Explain the meaning of a confidence interval.
* What is the meaning of covariance and correlation? Give a mathematical definition. What is the difference between the theoretical and the empirical covariance?
* What is the purpose of a regression model. Give an example.
* Explain how a regression model is used for forecasting.
* Give an example for a 2x2 table. How is the odds ratio defined?
* What is the aim of a cluster analysis?


## Literature
* F.M. Dekking, C. Kraaikamp, H.P. Lopuhuä, L.E. Meester. A modern introduction to probability and statistics. Springer.
* G. Grimmett, D. Stirzaker. Probability and random processes. Oxford Univ. Pr.
* A.M. Mood, F.A. Graybill, D.C. Boes. Introduction to the theory of statistics. McGraw-Hill.


# Informatics
* Name elementary data types and how they are represented within computer memory.
     * [check](https://open.oregonstate.education/computationalbiology/chapter/elementary-data-types/)
* What is an algorithm and which types of control structures are generally used to implement algorithms?
* What is a function and how can it be used for implementing recursion?
* What are arrays, compound data types (aka records) and references (aka pointers)?
* What is the difference between compiled and interpreted programming languages?
* What are the time complexity and the memory complexity of an algorithm?
* Name at least two commonly used sorting algorithms and explain their computational complexity.
* Name two approaches to represent a graph in a data structure? Name a method to find out whether a graph is connected based on one of these structures?
* Name the advantages of a database system compared to storing data in plain text files?
* What are a relation, a tuple and a primary key in the relational data model?


## Literature
* Thomas H. Cormen. Introduction to algorithms. MIT press, 2009.
* David J. Eck. Introduction to programming using Java, 7th ed. Version 7.0, August 2014 (Version 7.0.2, with mostly typographical corrections, December 2016). Web: http://math.hws.edu/javanotes/
* Cay S. Horstmann. Computing concepts with Java essentials, 3rd ed. Wiley, 2003.
* R. Ramakrishnan, J. Gehrke. Database management systems, 3rd ed. McGraw Hill, 2002.
